this sock will briefly go through lipid
EP interfaces and it'll actually begin
with a look at how Lapita pee ends up
getting used in other programs first and
how we're architecting things and then
we'll go through kind of the current
direction that we're thinking about
sanitizing interfaces across the project
this part is this kind of cast in terms
of ipfs for a moment but foul coin is
the same thing and other systems might
do the exact same thing here there's a
core implementation of a system and it
has some protocol api's and it has some
client interfaces so these client
interfaces will be the users of
something like ipfs the users of
something like popcorn and so on the way
that we've architected things is that
the programmatic interface is here for
the clients get expressed in terms of an
API a programmatic API which then we use
a commands library in go
I think JavaScript I don't know what you
guys do which then gives us all the
stuff like which gives us some tooling
around having an RPC library to call
those commands from anywhere so think of
this as kind of G RPC equivalent it's
not your PC but it's kind of that this
could be over HP sockets and so on this
could actually be any lipid opie
transport which enables us to expose a
client API to anything and then that's
kind of how other programs end up
calling into these the system now the
protocol side is implemented by having a
lipid open node embedded into you know
whatever the system is and setting some
handlers for the protocols then the each
of these is the actual code from those
protocol implementations speaking to
their counterparts over some Lapita
piece stream these are then of course
MUX together or something like that so
far so good and any questions on this
okay great
yeah it's kinda like the simpler version
of the same thing it ends up being that
people people just have to when they use
the p2p or they end up just having to
implement this side of things this is
not lipid related but that's the same
kind of story
so this this ends up being some manual
implementation and this is implemented
by by each so you know the HT
implementation or pops up and so on
that's what in the lipid B project this
would be on a client of lipid okay so
where we're headed is to break apart the
interfaces of the systems that we use
and use an interface definition language
to define what the center phases
actually are and the types of those
interfaces so that we can all agree on
what the function calls should actually
be and so that we can check you know
things like interface compliance now
there might be a mapping like you might
choose to do something more idiomatic to
a language so you might think about how
to do that and and and support mappings
of some sort but with this interface
definition language allows to do is to
then and ending up with you know kind of
like code Jenning out stubs for
implementations now here I represent the
p2p as one interface but in reality
there will be one for like the core of
loopy and then one for each of you know
DHT pub/sub and so on you know they can
Emily did see flood sub and all those
kinds of implementations and I'll show
you I'll jump in in a moment into the
kind of interfaces that I'm describing
and so you know once those stuffs are
generated then people can just implement
them now again this can mutate and
change over time and eventually diverge
to some extent ideally not we would like
to keep everything the same because that
makes it easier to reason about and test
so that clients of these systems can
write against these interfaces
and then expect that these
implementations match them but you know
there are there are potentially some
cases where this might need to change in
JavaScript is the same thing even though
there's no typed interfaces this could
coach an out just normal stops and as
functions yeah yeah but are you testing
it against the go implementation you're
testing it against what is the source
that you're testing go to but that's
there's like a stream MUX or specific
thing okay got it
but that's only I think that JavaScript
is doing is not language independent so
what I want to show you is I wasn't
recording the screen so now I am so what
I'm gonna show you is a draft version of
what we're working on so don't take any
of these types too too strongly to too
hard or whatever I'm gonna define these
very quickly these are kind of like
external type so we're gonna pull into
loop it appear and then out of this
we're gonna construct Lib poopy we used
to be able to just get away with multi
hash for PR IDs there's a reasoning that
we might need encoding as well
but other than that you know you can
really think of like these two being the
main things that we're importing from
the outside world they send ends up
getting used by something else like the
record store which I may not even go
into today so kind of don't really need
to think about too much really the do
you prefer to go from the bottom layer
up or do prefer to think about it from
like the client side down alright great
so we're thinking of this is the main
interface for now again don't get too
sold on these types just yet but a lipid
open node would have an ID which is the
PID we'd have an associated key which
would be a signing key I'll get into
what that means in a moment it would
have a peer store which is the ability
to understand information about Pierce
it would have a switch within it it
would have the ability to mount a
protocol didn't I this might be an
idiomatic thing in rust they might be
compiled so we have to think about like
what this would look like and it has the
ability to connect to other peers that's
pretty much all it does those peer
things are the peer IDs is like the
content dress of a key so you know multi
hash here if it's CID then it's a little
bit more but that's that's about it the
peer store is just some you can think of
it just being a map from peer ID to
these peer infos there might be other
stuff I think the go implementation in
the jobs for invitation have other
things in there it's not clear those
need to be part of the interface so
that's like all a client of just the lip
PDP node might need most protocols that
use the Pippy might just use that but we
might have other pieces so this is where
the classes of protocols come in
pure discovery really it's just an
interface that has a function discover
Pierce you know a Russ trade or
something that gives that you pure just
pure infos just AM its period post on
its own that's all it does so an example
of this would be local DNS you can be
sitting listening in local DNS and it
emits peer infos to you
pure info is the peer ID and the address
does anybody have another example of a
period discovery protocol I said mdns so
what was your example
so another discovery protocol might be
if we have a DHT we could use the DHT to
randomly discover peers on a DHT by
issuing a random queries over it
so a DHT which we'll see in a moment
could satisfy this as well what else
good satisfy that hey other people for a
moment you're like that kid in the front
of the class I static list absolutely we
could this is like the bootstrap set of
notes a static list would would totally
implement this how about DNS we could
have a specific set of DNS servers that
could return records that have this like
text records that that could point us
that what else what other things could
be he is
what is BitTorrent use for peer
discovery uses trackers so you can have
a tracker type thing what else does he
use these three things trackers DHCS
what is the last thing that pattern uses
[Music]
the random walk discovery we turn it
uses thing called PEX peer exchange and
have you ever heard of this all it does
is randomly other BitTorrent nodes will
tell you about other Batory nodes
they're not even guaranteed to care
about the same torrents you're looking
at you just find out about other nodes
what other things might admit the thing
emit peers
how about Bluetooth ambient listening
give me in a room and if I want to tell
the world that I'm listening on the p2p
through Bluetooth I could do that and
somebody else listening in blue cheese
could do the same thing yeah yeah so so
let's look at peer writing for a moment
and then that'll that'll distinguish
them so a peer router is an interface so
it just has a function called find peer
where you give it up here ID and a
returns a peer info so so this means
that the client of a peer editor is
explicitly telling this thing I have
this pure ID please return me a way of
connecting to this pier this is
explicitly trying to find up here so
this would be in a DHT asking to walk
walk along it to find a specific peer
and try to connect to that one what
would be another example of this fine
peer
a trucker is not because you're not
asking for specifics here er ID a
tracker you're asking for content and
then you could you just get a bunch of
peers associated with that content
that's like a provider stuff that's
that's it that's even harder yes you
your lip p2p node would be bound to
multiple interfaces and you could end up
with this the same node yeah so you talk
about Wi-Fi yeah you could totally
actually do find peer on Ethernet does
anyone know what what ARP is ARP is
effectively this just at ethernet layer
right ARP is saying hey who has this IP
address sorry who has the IP address and
then a MAC address responds I've got it
that's it so the idea here though is
that these interfaces can be implemented
by much more concrete things like a DHT
does all of these but but the important
thing is to issue it's useful to think
about it kind of like a matrix where
you have like pure routing or pure
discovery peer routing and so mdns gives
you this it gives you this a DHT gives
you this gives you this but of course
like gives it to you with completely
different guarantees right like of
discoverability and efficiency and all
sorts of stuff right and so the recent
peer-to-peer systems have to do all this
stuff is that they have to use as many
advantageous tools as possible
to try and work in a variety of contexts
right so something like firechat is
supposed to be a capable of finding
other phones and communicating across
other phones which is only capable of
doing things locally it doesn't
necessarily have access to a global DHT
right so so one inside of the pp is to
issue instead of only thinking about
implementing distributed systems or
Piter Piter systems in terms of each of
these protocols horizontally which is
vast this is how BitTorrent other things
think about it it's actually think about
it in terms of what you need you need a
system that can do peer discovery you
need a system that can do peer routing
and so on and then which protocols do
you choose depend on the context in
which you want to use the system so
other examples of this that are like
less DHT oriented how else might you do
routing
how else might you do peer routing I
could just have to ask an HTTP server
right I might have a huge cash somewhere
that we agree on and I could ask that
cash to just give me like the last
version of something that they've seen
or if you know that you have a long live
address you could write it into a
blockchain like you could do that for
some addresses like a tourist hit a
service you would do that you would take
up here ID and bind it to a tor hidden
service and like commit to it forever so
you could do that right so you can think
of at the HT as implementing each of
these things now where it gets a little
bit funkier is
so I have like a bunch of other pieces
so this kind of like the higher levels
of the PDP it might make sense for a
moment to step into it and look at like
the network because that that might be
kind of where some of the interface
questions are right now this is kind of
what the network is there's a connection
there's a local endpoint in a remote
endpoint and a transport of choice for
that connection an endpoint is just an
ID I can associated key an associated
signing key and I'm sorry Eddy key and
then a an address that is pointing to
that end point you have encrypted
connections you have connections like in
MUX which gives you multiple streams and
and again this is like very go idiomatic
so while a lot of us like these
interfaces it might not be the ones that
all of Lib TP needs to come into we have
a concept of a dialer with a concept of
a listener whether it comes of a
transport transport you know a lot of C
to dial into things or listening to
things and then we have a switch and the
switch is what that's the heavy lifting
in terms of the interfaces in the
network stack and so that's this is
again internal flippity most people
don't ever have to worry about this
unless you're implementing it but this
which is what handles a node binding to
multiple interfaces multiple transports
and multiple interfaces dialing and
doing like the protocol muxing any
questions so far um on this this is like
a lot embedded into this I wanted to
talk so we talked a bit about pure
routing we haven't talked about IP NS we
what were the other things specs and
compliance so what we want to end up
with is a single file
that's like this for the coral lip to
pee and then a file for some of these
things like a DHD it's not necessarily
the core of loopy but peer routing and
peer discovery is Gordon loopy
so we would have one file that like
describes the interfaces that
we agree on and then find some way of
making sure that in implementations and
interfaces match to that from a
client-side and then we need the same
from a protocol layer standpoint like we
want the protocols to be interoperable
and we need to find a good way of
writing a language in the pen test suite
that does that so I think that we'd
wrote about this of creating traces of
packets that would that could then be
replayed against an implementation just
to make sure that it works correctly
yeah so I don't know how much you want
to do presentation versus kind of
discussion but I think it like I think
it would be great to hear feedback from
the audience
positive or negative about this whole
concept that basically a set of dot go
files like this would replace the specs
repo in effect like this would become
the standard to measure conformance
against the Lib Lib p2p and it would be
interesting to hear what Jas and rust
think about that if they have any
reactions the wire
the existing yes you're right replaces I
think was the wrong word uh supplement
or but this would be the the beginning
of the specter ago and then it would be
followed by textual descriptions of what
what these mean and what what behaviors
expected for they couldn't you read a
trait that's us compton discovery and
has a function associated with that no
no so to just the ability of having
something the response to a content
discovery query the reason is every
choice implementers choice what your
edits running away yeah I think we're
getting hung up on different kinds of
interfaces so you guys want a protocol
level wire wire protocol test suite that
can ensure conformance across all the
different protocols right that's kind of
like what you what you're going after
so the no need to say what they're doing
you mean at the wire level because I
think they're going to different you
bring up semantics and you're bringing
up the water protocol and I think that
will be achieved by having a test suite
that has a trace of of messages to be
able to send to the wood then the other
thing that we did is even
I'm suggesting a more more extreme
version of that where you have test
cases associated with a sequence you
have a sequence of operations like
setting up a connection and trying to
open a stream and then you have a set of
packets associate with that then run
against one implementation and say oh
look you can't open a stream that that
it was a great test right in both
implementations it will be great if this
is just like a one-time test run this
against every we are we could we could
wire
[Music]
so so far we're talking to mostly about
wire protocol agreement what the other
interfaces are about are the other
things are about modular interface
agreement which is if somebody else
wants to write a thing that could be
plugged into a lip PDP node they need a
set of standard interfaces that they
need to match against to be able to
mount that protocol into into things
right so in go for example if if
somebody wants to write a new DHT they
can totally do that and as long as
they're they have something that exposes
the right interfaces then they can mount
that whole thing into lipid DP and then
an application can use it and so that's
a different type of interface and even
that is different from like the client
right so there's no thing that I showed
you this is kind of like the client
interface
whereas this classist thing I showed you
this is kind of like the modular
interface where by agreeing to to create
a modular interface like this then we
enable people to write these different
implementations so they can be plugged
in does that help distinguish and
separate the concerns
[Music]
and plug it in right so we're getting to
a point where ipfs won't won't know
about a DHT ipfs will know about peer
discovery and content discovery and will
right against that is that kind of make
sense and so you if you if you import I
profess the library and your important
lipid appears library you can say I want
an IP fast node that speaks with
academia DHT
so then somebody who writes at the DHD
has to be the person who plugs it into a
TFS and then somebody who's writing a
different application can't leverage
those straights they would have to write
the traits again so we should I think we
that we should discuss that more in
detail because it is an explicit goal of
lippy to enable parties to implement
things that are pretty hard to implement
like a whole DHT or something and enable
people that are application developers
to just write against these interfaces
and allow a separate person all together
to easily plug those two together
without requiring recompiling anything
necessarily or without requiring
modifying code anywhere maybe
recompiling libraries but like if I'm
reporting those libraries and I'm going
to recompile it in my program but I
should be able to like connect these
like Lego bricks what is I don't
understand the overhead and rust
wouldn't that just be compiled away
we make sense I mean yeah let's go
and I think Stephen might be a good
person for this because he comes from
like rust land more than go or anything
else and he's thought a lot about these
interfaces so may want to talk to him
about it whoa
so I just want it suit Dawid how do you
feel about this for J is this like if
you had a set of interface files and
okay okay okay okay yeah yeah that makes
total sense yes yes
people asked about IP NS and I wanted to
kind of describe how that works
are we interested in that or do we want
to stop okay yeah mind I don't know only
one though I already know about it a
little bit Syd
who else is interested in this a couple
people
hands alright so summary of like IP LD
you have content address things so you
have byte sequences which represent
nodes in a graph this graph is linked
through hashes these hashes are
expressed as byte sequences called multi
hashes that express the function that
you use the hash function they use to
compute it and and how to move forward
we I peel these a set of libraries and
formats to be able to read arbitrary
data structures that follow this hash
linked thing to be able to traverse
through links across different domains
so for example there there's a cool talk
where Jeremy shows ingesting all of the
Z cache chain into ipfs and then is able
to traverse the Z cache chain with a
path notation similar to how you would
in a file system and that's kind of done
through Y field II I'm giving you like
this tiny little primer to then express
how the rest works all IP NS is is a
name system we're mapping a key so a
public key regret public key and we're
treating that as a name pointing to a
value that can change over time and the
idea is that we need some place to write
those records right so if I want to
mutate a name over time I need to be
able to construct a record so I need to
have my private key associate with a
public key write the value and then
write the signature on that value and
take bundle that up and put it somewhere
that somebody else can look at it to be
able to find it and resolve it right so
this is kind of similar to DNS in a way
that DNS is not secure and it's not
signed but it it has the same idea of
like putting little bit little pointers
somewhere where you can use a name to
resolve the name and get the value right
so it turns out that a lot of
peer-to-peer systems use this idea of
like little records somewhere that tend
to be cryptographically signed for a
whole bunch of purposes including like
advertising like which trackers you
should go look at showing bad behavior
in certain nodes saying that a
particular node is storing something all
kinds of stuff end up boiling down to
the idea of being able to express a very
small record that has some meaningful
semantics in a system but is usually
meant to be posted somewhere that a lot
of people can look at and so we think of
that as kind of like a record type that
has some value and some ability to check
out validity associated with it and that
because we have to cancel records three
cancel records with address records we
have provider records and we have name
records so the address record would be a
node advertising to the world that it
has a specific set of addresses and
being able to place that somewhere in
the world where you can find it the
provider record is a node advertising
that they are storing and are willing to
distribute some piece of content and the
third one is a node is that advertising
the next value in some some pointer
right like that
that's the name we've thought about
using this kind of record structure to
advertise signed heads of cear teats
so you could use the exact same kind of
structure to have some public searchable
space where party is like create a
record and say hey this is like the last
value of the co duty that I have not the
whole log just the last value and then
that would allow parties to like find
that record and then find the other and
then maybe find the address record so
then connect to them and sing
synchronize actually forgot one the
pub/sub stuff if a fourth record which
is impulsive land you need a way to
advertise channels and channel
membership so you need to be able to say
hey I'm gonna create a public channel
around topic X and you know I'm this
pier and I'm interested in this topic X
so it's very similar to the content but
it has a different semantic thing right
and so in epicness land we end up using
a DHT for a lot of the stuff but the
basic abstraction is you have all these
little bits of information that help
groups coordinate and they're usually
signed and they're usually the
expectation is they can like exist
somewhere and there's gonna be a lot of
them and they're transient so we have a
thing called a record store which is
what is really like fix like addresses
all of that so given a record store
which is just like you can treat up a
record it's just like again and I feel
the thing it point it could point to
other stuff
it could be signed and so anything could
be validated has like a specific
interface that that needs to be met
given that you can implement naming
freely trivially by just setting the
value and then posting it to whatever
record store you're using so in the DHT
case it would be a my PFS node has a key
signs of value crafts a record and then
throws it on to the DHT at the right
spot and so if you want to resolve it
you ask the DHT for that record and then
you find the record and then now you can
use the name now you have there's a
whole bunch of questions there around
are you getting the last version of that
record are there others is it getting
silenced there's a whole whole bunch of
security questions in embedded in there
and they're also performance questions
at the HP resolving over a DHT kind of
sucks it's pretty slow and if you also
disappear your record may not be
republished for you so a DFC is good for
some of the use cases but it's not good
for like it's really high performance
stuff and it's not useful for long-term
persistence so for long-term persistence
you could easily take those records and
put them somewhere really persistent ie
something like a blockchain you could
actually throw these records straight
into a blockchain and write a you could
write a record store on top of any
blockchain and you know throw these
records on etherium it's already people
already doing this I think you port
experimented with us and they have like
an IP NS thing where you map and I
theorem address to to a name so that
gives you participants but not the
high-performance the high-performance
thing you could actually treat pub/sub
that's a really weird record store you
could say I was gonna take the latest
value and just propagate it or a pub sub
channel and if somebody's listening
great and if not whatever it's just a
very memorable it's gone after after I
sent it out so now with the name system
if I'm updating my name I could if I
want to this update to persist for a
very long time I put it on something
like a blockchain if I want this name to
persist for a medium amount of time and
I and I don't care that much about
performance I throw it on a DHT or if I
want things to be really fast if I'm
gonna make a lot of updates really
quickly I don't want to do either of
those I want to throw them out throw it
over pops up to people that are
interested in this name right now and so
that's how if we write this one
interface then the rest of the stuff can
can flow out of that
questions there's a lot in there I saw a
bunch of people nodding so actually you
could use a co2 tea for a record type
record store too so yeah how do I see it
we just need to agree on an air face and
then ship it yeah
yeah I mean I think so for a long time
we're waiting for a lot of that the IPL
the stuff for language stuff to land I
don't know when that's gonna land so if
we want to just use some like a goat
struct or something to define the type
we I could roll with that
yeah yep probably figure that out flying
because there's a lot of like context
sir
any other questions about naming
otherwise see you thank you so much for
thank you so much for coming there is
that demystify naming like a demo like
this is still pretty abstract
so when I create an I profess object it
has a particular hash so I can look at
that object I should be able to look at
it on in the world will it work
I don't know I don't know what the like
natural virtual story looks like here
all right
a lot of Pierce
will it blend alright great so whatever
gateway I hit first didn't find me but
now this one did so it's there so now
it's in another computer so now I can
take a name and I can publish that hash
as my as a name and so this is creating
the record signing it and then posting
it in this case it's posting it to the
VHD why does it take so long oh yeah
it's like stuck dialing something that
like it's on dial so theoretically
theoretically it might already be in
some notes right nope
yeah something like majorly stuck there
no way
I think I'm connected because I'm
connected to like 200 nodes it might
just be really slow you might all be
stuck in like crypto handshakes there we
go so now this should resolve soon right
I shouldn't have to refresh but what if
I hit another one
not one of them works one of them worked
so that's that's like non human readable
names right because those are keys I
think that's also has the ability to use
DNS that's the name system so this how
Pierre pad these are our websites work
so if you've been to any of our website
it's like Pierre pad that is not a
normal HTTP server that is an IP fest
node and the way it works is that you
know if you trace like the traditional
what the browser is doing is it's
sending an a record to Pierre pad net
which are each sorry sending a DNS query
for an a record I'm gonna do it with
short so you see it so this is like the
response that I get for Pierre pads on
it so so the browser would be dialing to
that it would say hey what is that
but that returns nothing that IP address
returns nothing because it is an IP bus
node so when you're HTTP request when
the browser calls that when the browser
goes to purify the net it also sets the
host header in the HTTP request right
and so when the host header is set to
peer Pinet the IFS node will just
translate that to this I don't have you
guys can see it and sorry that I can't
increase the font size here but that's
just the IP address / IP NS / purified
net and that resolved this content sorry
let me invert the colors is that even
that better here I've a plan
can I go smaller than 720
you can see that right IP address the
rest so the way that this works is that
behind the scenes that ipfs node is
running its own detect DNS record check
whoops come on man standards no so I can
take this and now so what's going on
behind the scenes is that's mapping that
name to this sorry let me opening a new
tab and so that's how I get this content
so we went from a normal human readable
standard HTTP link talking to some
server out there telling it that we want
this name that gets to this hash address
and now we can serve it to me now for
the kicker you can do that locally so
look at this in localhost
so this is the exactly I'm content going
from localhost which is my local Ida
pheasant and that would be the same the
same stuff and the really cool thing is
to see it working with the same pad so
let me show you I'm gonna open up pad
here
what so Wednesday hey what up
and then I'm going to take the rest of
the address and then go to localhost and
view it I guess I need to open in this
right okay
so what's that incognito does not work
it has worked for me in the past well
let's see if it works it's not all open
Firefox great will it work yeah
we're all paying attention to be a very
short competition I took it took a long
time I think that was probably
WebSockets each sending a WebSocket
connection doing encrypted channel then
asking that node to relay a connection
to the southern ode and setting up a
crypto channel there all with RSA I
think right it also be just a server
being that could be - there we go Owen
come Neto it did work so all three or
that worked eventually yeah so that's
how the human readable i pns stuff works
it's really DNS you know don't really
need to reinvent a new human readable
name system yet and there are others
like ENS and so on could could do that
any questions about yes yeah not a
question but there is are in the ipfs
organization we just moved the DNS link
to today activist organization so if you
want to set it up with your own like
records your own DNS and stuff you can
find the tool in the ipfs organization
thank you Scott Deanna sim Oh - do you
know string or something if you just go
through organization we would see the
this just yeah just go to organization
it should be
this uh yeah okay we haven't finished
moving it but he will be there in two
minutes as soon as I go back to my
laptop when I decided the so that's a
two or ticket on ocean I think and then
we have another Guinness simple as well
yeah I mean probably should have like a
one that deals with there's like a
digital ocean one and so on right
which really like merge all of them into
one no it is just a binary yeah
basically the digital ocean one is in
JavaScript but under the new tool that
were using right now for like automatic
deploys and stuff it's just a fighter
did you just download but the Petrecca
potage but all you have to do is that
which is set a tax record on DNS at that
address and then it'll work at naturally
you don't even walk you need to set the
a record to point or FS gateway as well
yeah those two records this probably be
returning two or three oh is that any
case so you can Center you can set the
alias to get away - int dot ok faster IO
and then you get like or or public
gateways yeah so if your other jack is
fine it just does all that for you yeah
yeah that's how all our websites for it
yep great any other questions on this or
does everybody understand it's not an
expert on how all this works yeah we go
did you talk anything about what the
torrents performance yeah so current
promise of idns on the DHD sucks for
whole variety of reasons
which is why right now there's an
experimental flag in go IVFs to do use
pop sub for really fast updates but that
is that doesn't work if you're not
around
and long term you want it to be
persisted into into a blockchain or
something like that to allow long term
naming to to happen that's a whole other
that just is like a just like a little
pie we should get these different
publishers but I don't know with a
normal DNS name then it falls whatever
access policy DNS pass so if you can
change the DNS record then you can
change the name with the other one that
the key name which is not human readable
then it's whoever has a private key so
in this case it's my node so my I have
the key here you just have to share that
key to another party yep keys you can
publish the IP NS record too
first you have the node identity T which
is probably what almost using before but
then you can also can write new keys
right because if you I think if you use
the same node ID key or multiple nodes
that kind of gets confused but if you
generate a new key you can share that
here and multiple people can use that
key to to update like the same website
but it should be a new key not the self
key do you ever wait to do ki jaana huh
yeah it's on the key ipfs key keys
right yeah and now this is stuck because
while it's walking the DHD it's setting
up a whole bunch of new connections and
some of those nodes are not viable and
right now that dial operation can
potentially take a very long time
because it'll try a number of addresses
until it stops so that's what's making
it
this is totally brain-damaged like it
could be way way way way faster it's
just stuck waiting the that and quick
and a number of other things will like
vastly speed this up so the this is
buggy needs to be fixed
someone asked all those IPAs works
question answer
hasn't finished um Republic we never got
got to this dream on seeing stuff yeah
do you want to Westar nothing so de vida
and I talked about this yesterday a
little bit but basically well you do you
want to you know me restate the question
was about HDPE to versus speedy which I
I'm just repeating what I understand
here I think speedy is deprecated now
but we can't if I understand correctly
we can't use HTTP 2 which is supposed to
be a successor for a couple of reasons
Oh first there's no node package yet for
HDPE to a second issue was it would make
NAT traversal harder and it also doesn't
there's no way to use it yet with TLS
1.3 which is kind of a requirement for
us because we don't want to have a CA
said eventually published but yes I
think the it also bundles in a whole
bunch of stuff from HTTP land which we
could ignore but that it's non non
trivial I mean the NGO uses yeah MOX to
talk to other go nodes and then it uses
em Plex to talk to nodes multiplex I
think right yeah so there's two
different mixers look like if we find
something that is compatible for us to
Jas and we find something else is
compatible from from rust to go then
it'll work
the we wish that it would be as simple
as saying oh yeah just use it should be
- we have learned the very hard way that
shree mixers are not easy to implement
and they are quite tricky when you have
hundreds to thousands of streams and in
a long-lived connection and most
implementations that we've ever found
our buggy in some ways we fix the number
of them we've we've done poor requests
in most implementations that we found so
we hope that quick will solve a lot of
this because quick is a standard that a
lot of people are moving to I wouldn't
bet on any h-2b to implementations
because
I don't think htv-2 implementations are
put through hundreds of thousands of
streams like we would do I don't think I
mean what I'm saying is we can try that
out it is likely the implementations we
use will be buggy and so it'll just be a
long haul of fixing those bugs which we
can do is just a matter of finding do we
want to fix bugs and eggs to be cured
we're gonna fix bugs in quick so I think
that sorry Sudha premise the question
we're the hope is that quick becomes the
primary 95% you case but we need a TCP
fallback for the other and then I think
this question comes up
this is the language
[Music]
so do you think from a specification
standpoint we should just say like every
input any implementation any valid
implementation is required to implement
quick and at least one of the following
and it's a list of TCP transports and so
let p2p itself isn't gonna require any
in theory yeah can it can't because it
couldn't require you to implement any
transfers beause it's not there's no
yeah yeah okay first of all you could
so tour I don't really I don't think
tour does stream multiplexing which were
you get one reliable stream but this is
something that they would likely if
people use tor extensively they would
end up sinking that into into a lower
layer and so it would be the sort of
thing where like tor you may have access
to the keys that you use with tor and
you that may give you stream muxing so
you don't need to pipe some other stream
box or on top of that so so we need to
walk into a lot of this acknowledging
that stream muxing is a big part of
connections across the board and the
implementations will vary and sometimes
the lower level protocol will give it to
you and sometimes you won't like SCTP if
if we used real SCTP connections like
rah instead of like through work
we would have access to a street marks
are right away and there are other other
transfer protocols to do this too so the
just like the the bugginess right now is
just simply because these
implementations are pretty hard to do
and you know assembly so I mean go they
went straight to so that some the main
effort implements went straight to http
to are supposed to getting really robust
speedy and there were multiple speedy
implementations that each diverged from
the implementation so yeah max which we
use and go was originally a speedy re
implementation and they just dropped
some stuff and that that's it's just
like it slightly different
okay stim blind quick everyone in point
quick go ask Mozilla to expose the keys
I mean the IETF is gonna standardize
bank by the end of the year so the
browser vendors maybe that's what our
guy on quick Martin told me so he's on
the committee Martin is on the ietf
quick standardization that's and and
then the browser vendors because the
renders are the ones core like yeah
actually gonna do the work of
standardizing and implementing and
they'll be so I wouldn't expect all of
that to happen for a couple years like I
think we're gonna get quick to use and
go and node and we will get quick
underneath the hood in Chrome and
Firefox but not in a way that we can use
it nicely it'll look like web RTC to us
from the browser
I mean maybe website cuz I don't know if
they're gonna expose it to WebSockets
they might yeah like do what sucks over
quickly no no it's like such a mess
we have because okay yeah Eric sent
library on the user one that tries to
operate the transport in order to be
more efficient to transport large
amounts of files data like phrases if
there's a note that supports to e
transports
I might try the most supported one or
one like but if there's there should be
a way one is faster and a lot of the
controller cuts from the connections
that we use we are not using
so some of the a lot of this might get a
lot easier when we make the packet
switching stuff in lipid oopy because
we're gonna be able to get rid of a lot
of abstractions along the way so a lot
of these protocols like the DFG protocol
and so on could be entirely packet
oriented yeah and maybe sometimes it's a
little bit difficult right now to we
would have to think about the semantics
of transitioning a lie be able to like
move over protocol by protocol like if
we set up two connections then moving
like DHD screens like if there's a
stream in flight or something we can't
easily interrupt it because then we're
messing with the semantics of the of the
higher level protocol so we would have
to like be able to pause the stream
exactly and then resume 8:00 in the
other side or just say that that stream
sticks on that one and new streams got
to generate over here lipid Opie can
handle all of this transparently like if
it could use two connections and then
MUX them in such a way that the protocol
has no idea that there are two
underlying connections it just would be
able to use both and and one of the
original dreams is being able to use say
like my wired connection and wireless
simultaneously to like increase
throughput of an application right it's
not like you could totally do this and I
don't even notice but but Apple does
this with some some applications it uses
both LTE and while it wireless sometimes
so once we get either packets which so
once we get packet switching this is a
lot easier to do from my point of view
it's harder to do when when you don't
have packet switching and you're doing
it with stream connections that you
don't really control like quick or
WebRTC that gets harder because you
but so what you really need is something
to the texting
yeah yeah should we try to do that
tomorrow yeah awesome
the Pippi Liberty is one where there's a
lot of really cool things that aren't
not really dependent a lot of our other
stuff so a lot of ipfs things end up
like depending on something on appeal
deal and or in something in liquid
appeal and so on and so it's pretty hard
to actually lend them Lipitor piece full
of ideas that are pretty self-contained
and it can be built on their own so you
know it's almost of that I wrote they're
like building a Bluetooth transport for
for go lipid OJ's lipid feed or
something like that is something that
could be like completely self-contained
and then build it ship it and you know
if if ipfs imports it that's a separate
question and so the we it's it's a hope
of mine that we can get lippy to be to a
point where we get we have what we call
these IDs and so on and then people can
like attack some of those over time
yeah dude so we should think about how
many dependencies we want to live PETA
compete to be able to have like are we
okay with it depending on IPL d-types
like that's what we were showing I mean
I don't know it's a putting out its a
that's a great great question yeah I
don't have an answer but I think the
record it really boils down to whether
or not we want the record store thing to
be formally part of the p2p we we think
that it should be for a lot of reasons
and that gets a lot easier if you get
IPL be there can you say a little bit
about why you think it should be part of
the p2p it's not not clear um because
the things like the yeah so this is
we're really because of this given a
record store
I can't implement a content router or a
peer router or peer discovery and so on
on top of any record store and so it
becomes a pretty like if a system
implements the record store interface
and you can then you can get almost
everything else and look at a peak out
of that so it becomes kind of like a a
worst-case scenario you can get
everything you so wanted out of that so
it's like a fallback like if they don't
if they refuse to implement other things
like up sub and DHT and that way yeah
and also the other way like for example
a DHT is gives you peer discovery
out-of-the-box gives you peer routing
out of box and gives you a record store
out of the box it doesn't give you
content discovery out of the box we just
implement that on top of it by putting
content discovery records onto those
record server that's the idea I see okay
and so the record store has to rely on
IP LD types
um just trying to ferret out what blue
the absolute minimum the rabbit so funny
Lee I feel he exists because of this
thing so we were thinking about this
stuff and we're like oh man
suddenly you have different records and
they might be signed by different keys
with different like validity algorithms
like you know name is signed but like a
content discovery thing you might want
to proof that it's that you have the
content beyond just hashing and you
might actually want to be able to
generate a proof so a lot of
possibilities open up when you can point
to code from the records and so we can
put into code from the records then you
want to authenticate you want
authenticated data structures and so you
want to be an IPL deal and right away
and then that's what is okay halt let's
go figure this out and then come back to
do this so that's kind of like where
where this came from so let me ask this
should I feel deep be part of well it's
like I'm I guess it's imported by lab
hippy yeah but I mean as a as a project
like would it make sense if it's like
its own thing I built its own product
okay no no yeah we'd say it'll be like
way too much scope creep okay yeah it's
just just trying to feel around the
difference I know it makes perfect sense
and I mean part of this is that this
evolved over time because we try to get
to deeper and deeper more fundamental
questions about how these things should
work and it's it's not clear that sorry
Claire yeah I mean
if we get the record store abstraction
really right and we have the ability to
define new record types with arbitrary
functions that we can write then you can
do stuff like CRT team merging straight
into that you you can do a whole bunch
of interesting stuff right there and so
it's a pretty I don't know it's a hard
rabbit hole not to go down into does
that make sense it's like it's like the
pies look really good then you're like
oh man now you've fallen like Stephens
already falling in there yeah it becomes
easier to write get things like dhts to
like sometimes the HP's have certain
conditions and being able to define them
on a record and have all that taken care
of for you would easy now I think the
hard part here is we're trying to we
have a little bit now and we want to use
it now and all this IP all these stuff
is like not there yet so that's that's
the issue like if we had IPL DNA was
nice and and and s blessing and say
protobuf they'd be like yeah sure why
not sounds great
so I think what we probably should do
like I wonder if we should probably move
forward on defining them on top of C
board and then just dealing with that
later I'm sorry on top of what like like
we already have I peel the formatting
and so on on top of C borer so
we can go in that direction you can
still use that API what I mean is um
this was blocked in Stephen and I and
others figuring out like ideal language
l0 to then be able to like guess what
what you really want is to be able to to
write something like this oh my god
where am I you wanna be able to like
define something like this where oh
actually it's just a signed record and
like I guess that's almost it given the
sign record I capable with signature
checking and then like you would have
like a DHD that is able to like just
implement some function around that and
I said this is not a great example
maybe this so you'll be able to like
implement the name system on top of any
record store and so given like you have
a record so you could write like a
and so would be trivial like really
really easy and so this is why it is
kind of tall order to be like oh and
liquid P which is already has to ingest
all of the complexity of all of the
networking world and all of the
peer-to-peer worlds also ingest all the
complexity of all the hash chain world
like Jesus yes you see the perspective
I'm coming at it from it's like I want
live he to P do I want to be very
explicit in the specs about a conformant
implementation of Lippe to be must do
must implement a B and C may implement
XY and Z you know like this and I'm just
wondering if the record store thing it
puts a lot of bulk into the must
category and maybe it should be in the
NA category or yeah yeah I just yeah
yeah also not only does it make the
implementations more complex but for
people trying to learn about limb p2p
it's like a whole new set of things they
have to wrap their head around yep to
feel they understand what loop EDP yes
so those are yeah those are kind of the
thoughts I'm having right now I don't
need this yeah yeah and it makes more
sense it is a lot I think the
going back to this like classes thing
let's put it all in one file yeah that'd
be good
wait I thought those comments were
helpful I would almost like get rid of
this get rid of switch okay
yeah it's like underneath the hood but I
mean I don't know it's like a bigot if
we expose it then that whole like that
like pulls out the guts yeah so I went
almost like remove it yeah I mean is
people at someone trying to write an
application on top of lid p2p just wants
to instantiate a node I don't think they
want to they don't want to know how
notes work so yeah I think they want to
mount a protocol and they want to
connect to notes that's it
I mean did they even want access to the
pure store for example they may need to
tell the node about Pierce okay
okay kind of like hey make sure to
connect to this they may need to tell
them about addresses I guess all I guess
it could be maybe not I don't know I'm
just thinking aloud but well there might
be one what I'm be able to do is is
actually look at all the connections I
have that's true that's true
this is where the switch was from damn
it is the switch like brings in all this
other stuff about connections I guess we
do need streams we need a yellow stream
you have the entire interpreter
I really like kill
it's not the amount of docs that count
it's the clarity that's probably how we
wanted to work in go and rust to well go
is doing the same go I think go calls it
host but I think it's fundamentally the
same idea that's like yeah the hosts
need to be renamed into node yes I agree
yeah oh I thought you could pass in to
the constructor things that would
override this default I know they've
done some work on the constructor like
relative yeah this is this is good this
[Music]
you don't have pain here and both of
them yes if we have this and like an
idea of some some neutral ideal kind of
format and then every language had to
conform to it I don't know I think
there'd be a lot of benefits I think
someone who wanted to implement it would
be easier to learn how to use the
library if we had the same kind of
standardized interface to like write a
transport then someone who wants to
write the world's first you know Morse
code transceiver transporter we whenever
something crazy right yeah you know they
can write it in in Jay s rust and go
with the sick programming it's the same
guys yeah yes yeah yeah I don't know
good autumn and we're tested I mean we
can just if we see that one language is
failing to implement the standard then
we just start saying to that language
hey you're yeah yeah I mean so there
there there there should be like two
different different lanes of tests right
first you have the test that you just
assert within your own project that
stuff is working and that happens why
can't every change but then you should
also have from the interface side every
time the interface changes that means to
push out the test or the other projects
so they can fix them available and then
like open up an issue yeah these are the
test failing you need to fix this like
as soon as possible but they're normal
bill will still compile
that version that they were using but we
still make it available so they can use
that thing but it's also tricky like we
are having many different languages with
it with Cori implementations it's easy
because we usually are by HTTP IPR that
we can cannot follow in a like a not
interface way but otherwise you need to
write the tests in the native language
unless we use like hacks or something
like that and we can compile the tests
to JavaScript or go and I think that if
we I think we could write one test suite
that connects to a live running thing so
if you have a live running Lapita PE
node yeah then one test implementation
can probe it maybe like put the node and
you like start a command-line client and
then it like finds report tells you what
ports bound to so yeah I guess you're
right
right one program we can do CLI tests to
make sure that zero is the same we can
make HTTP tests to make sure that the
HTTP API is the same but when we were
doing like the core definitions like the
the programmatic API that's when we
either have to like compile to that
language or like inventor on DSL with
like Jam oh and I'm bright or own kind
of like generator of test cases that and
this is this is where this stuff is this
this stuff right yeah yeah so then we
have to write a code gem for each
language like a nesting it could be on
your test as well right by me that
exists already as one of our caps
for example that comprise you know I
don't I don't know if it does for us
right do you think it does go and it was
Gayle's for sure but in these lower
level languages like drastic people
really want tight control over I don't
know like you guys use code gen a lot
yeah it seems like you'd never yeah I
don't know you know you know I mean I
can see like people want yeah
I don't know I just yeah it gets hard to
test a programmatic interface in a
language because that's when a language
implementation will want to use
idiomatic conventions and yeah what we
could do is define here's what we could
do we could define a a standard
interface that we can test that is just
a bit of glue on top of whatever the
idiomatic interface is so like a
language implementer writes the
idiomatic thing and then we write a
small wrapper around that that presents
all the right methods and so if they
can't satisfy those then there's
something missing on the underlying
thing she's kind of like mapping the
idiomatic version to a standardized
version I think this could work and then
high-performance programs would just use
the goodies find the idiomatic interface
yeah yeah so you will basically like
wrap a CLI like a library yeah like
multi hash for example you will wrap a
CLI and then how about defined CLI
interface which then hopefully something
like that yeah I mean I don't know what
is CLI per se but yeah yeah a strong
assist something that we can call yeah
that's what you're proposing right yeah
yeah well I mean when I was proposing
not quite in the sea life but like I
think you got it where yeah there's like
the automatic version that people use
and this other one other version which
is just one small file that just Maps
things and maybe massages the types a
little bit but should be able to pass
the tests and if that passes the test
then it's unlikely that the underlying
implementation is wrong
so they're both programmatic interfaces
but one of them is specifically intended
to pass a set of tests yes
yes but but the the cannot make sense
that the constraint is that a language
implementer will want to change the
stubs and and change the interfaces
because it makes sense for that language
that's that's the that's what we're
trying to do yes yeah I think that's on
a higher level yeah it's just like
yes it's cucumber it's like a language
to describe like scenarios for users so
like this might be useful for like other
things maybe CLI tests or whatever but
maybe not the core interface stuff
yeah if you want to go play around with
it and see if this like matches yeah
anyway
it's basically a way of mapping
sentences to code yeah it is is like
yeah but I guess this isn't yeah this is
a bit different from what we were yeah I
don't think this is quite what were cuz
we don't we're not concerned about
humans describing the interface we just
want programmers to agree on the and
your face oh wait we can have a more IDL
that's more like code yeah I think
that's true - yeah yeah so Mike doesn't
already the HTTP and the CLI tests kind
of like infer that the core
implementation already has the available
methods right like why are we trying to
achieve with the core interface
programmatic thing right for JavaScript
it make sense that the API and the core
protocol and the the actual code you can
call the same methods but across
languages what's not even make sense
the reason is a if somebody is an
application writer and they're writing
across something across languages they
it would be useful for them to have the
same matching interfaces across
languages to be able to easily port
their application from one language to
the other without having to learn an
entirely new set of instructions
but for that like the HTTP and the CLI
should be not if they're implementing
something in by embedding the node so I
profess for example embeds the lit p2p
node directly in itself yeah and it
wouldn't be using the commands library
or the or the or HTTP it would be
embedding the functions directly I was
just gonna say he has an interesting
point that like imagine a dev shop that
says we're gonna write the same app on
iOS and Android they don't expect the
same API they just they know there's two
totally different career models and
they're okay with that so glide or not I
think okay is more like dealing with it
then been liking it I mean how many
projects have ya
[Laughter]
[Applause]
but like in the end like if we have the
HTTP comply interface test of compliance
this or whatever and we have the CLI
once why would we add another one like
what's important is that the hvap are
fiant the CLI sorry like working if we
just add another one it's just maybe not
yeah right now there is no HTTP thing
for lepida P yes yeah and it would kind
of make yeah we can't people to make
every implementation of the P also have
to write a demon but what we could ask
them to do is is write one Wow they're
gonna end up writing something like a
demon but it works over a UNIX sockets
in stuff or whatever like in the end we
were gonna have to expose something that
the test can call right - won't be the
HTTP API right and under for multi
formats need to read same right like
multi hash need to have either I API
that test and call or a CLI like a
simple CLI conforms to the same standard
across the language but if somebody
wants to vendor live p2p into their own
code like what it's gonna spin up this
deminers no so the demon we saw in it
will be the same as what ksi PFS does
today right it's a CLI and it's a Korean
permutation either you require it like
programmatically or your execute it
doesn't see a lot and what to CLI does
is just mapping like commands to the
core implementation I have you coming
you can do okay yeah the CLI there's
nothing but translate yeah yeah I just
paid for the months and passes them into
the right way into the chorion
permutation okay I think Jeremy see did
hit something really good with with
being able to define things
across languages God where's the oh my
god
what do what no but where's the ER PC
thing where's it that's not we I think
you I think you're cooler Microsoft I
think you might got a microphone I mean
I know you worked at Google for a while
did you leave as you something so well
document what happened
material design of them so what is what
is this T RPC Google or PC yeah a lot of
people call it that but no it's supposed
to be jeff general-purpose RPC or
something yeah okay we're close yeah
yeah we made it here we go
yeah so this is a standard way a port
above like saying Jeff is he used to be
part of the protobuf inside of the world
Jerry's party parallel it was called
stubby I think but this is effectively
well what that IDL that we're talking
about will generate and you can use this
to generate out stubs and tests and RPC
stuff and so on it just is built-in
comfortable so I mean this would just
define like the top layer top level
interface right yeah how is that useful
so so this defines the top level
interface generates stubs for you and
then you can use this to generate all of
the HTTP servers and like command line
clients and all that kind of stuff you
can let's if you will have to take that
server map it to your core yeah so our
commands lib and so on is
is like a part of what this can do for
you yeah I think this helps us a bit
like the easy part but it doesn't help
us with the difficult parts like mapping
the interface to the core in each
language yeah its language for instance
yes does that might be as well as the
going mutation yes how the how do you do
a callback in this for example just like
implemented in each line yeah yeah
that's right so you would still have the
idiomatic interface and then you would
still have a mapping from the idiomatic
interface to this because I was seeing
the GS repute appear in terms of how do
you have different winners which is on
and now we have up in the version 10 and
that stadium attic right to listen to
events betting in racing go I don't know
yeah you know channel and are you into
each other outside of those oh yeah but
doesn't make sense to define a common
programmatic interface yeah
because people that aren't familiar with
note we look like that and what's that
I'm not doing with that well yeah that's
a good point actually maybe maybe we're
wrong and thinking we need to define a
single interface for all implementations
I don't know like see my voice my cells
it should be interface your cells as
well but unlike the the test cases
themselves can be written in in
JavaScript or whatever and then they
call the interfaces that we have in the
core implementations and I think that
will be enough to assert the behavior of
the core implementation I don't know
that all implementations should what
implement an HTTP interface for example
why not why do we need like multiple of
us well the point is to make sure that
the the demons work the same across the
line with us right so it so we're living
at me right now we
don't have it so whether we weren't
planning to create a demon for liberty
yeah it's just library in order to use
this kind of structure we'd have to then
make every implementation map their
interface to HTTP as opposed to which
they're gonna have to then do two things
one is map their implementation to a
standard way of doing it and then map
the center way of doing it to HD in
every language and so what what this is
suggesting is have these simple
functions and then map your idiomatic
thing to this and then it this handles
all of the the rest of the stuff like
the the converting from this into having
an RPC thing over HTTP or whatever you
want to do and it does all of that heavy
lifting for you anyway we're gonna have
to bike share this now can figure it out
tomorrow what I think a mapping could be
really small I think it mapping could be
a single file of like less than a
hundred lines so I don't think it's that
much to ask what you figure out it was
how would the all the other pieces work
if we have that mapping and could we
could we get to a point where we can
test everything reliably if we can't do
that then we shouldn't be even exploring
this was very out of that as possible
but a programmer who wants to use lid
p2p and comes in and it's a go
programmer and sees the node model of
events instead of like passing channels
like you know what you know idiomatic to
go like this they're gonna be like this
doesn't make any sense like that I'm
trying to burn basically what you saying
yeah so yeah I like I see the advantage
of standardizing for testing but I from
the perspective of a programmer who
wants you views let's do vendor Inlet
p2p not just use it as a daemon but yeah
I'm not suggesting get rid of the
idiomatic interface I'm saying how do
you do matter you know first for sure
yeah then in order to test it we map the
idiomatic interface to a standard
okay in a test box it's just for testing
okay okay I was okay it's testing it and
testing it for completeness because okay
the test the test will check that it's
correct and will also check that you
have all functions defined and if you're
missing some functions you're not gonna
pass some little tests yeah so it really
checks and make sure that you have all
the features and so so if we did have
this then we could just write the test
ones in theory
sounds good and we get back to that like
now we have shown us we have some basic
HTTP tests somewhere I think ever need
to extract into its own record for now
yeah but there are we from yes so we
were like writing this one file I had
everything
we said this is the majority of it plus
but the all of the networking coming
from where's this my computer and I just
take your computer item just somewhere
yeah what no this whole thing isn't it
just somewhere no because they didn't
want if I put in a little Pippy issue
then immediately it becomes the factor
like now another thing that can confuse
people and so I want to try and get it
right with the people that are super
loaded into the context and then like
push it out you know this this like
taints the whole recordings and now we
have to like not show anyway great you
want to show that yes yeah I'm serious
like
cool can i yeah let's first all this
record star stuff they weed and figure
out whether or not this sure they import
I filled these stuff it'd be really nice
if it did for a whole bunch of reasons
but it is lumping in a world of stuff so
I was hurried up alright any other last
questions on how the p2p works everyone
is now an expert can you give them the
next talk yeah forget those interfaces
right then and go it would be really
nice like easy to take a Bluetooth
implementation and then implement every
one of those things like the discovery
know what
new his what what all of those in the
top yeah but I think we need to get
these things to be I think this is the
reason why people find it easier to like
read the JavaScript projects and
understand because I know that I want
people to have to read hundreds of lines
with dice to understand understand these
interfaces
like as long as it's all and make sure
that it hits us they come with us but
you manually add all right I probably
need to renew we should just have the go
into places and stuff because this way
easier to read than the more town
headers like this you would see directly
like I mean do you think that um do you
think this is like a good summary what's
missing sorry I don't mean like the
doctor like each of these would have
like a large document like a comment
explaining how it works
you've seen how go code gets documented
right
what yeah but even more than that
No
mostly the code is for us to empty like
agree on it and use this as our spec
yeah you can then create tutorials and
all kinds of what's idiomatic what
what's up here seems to you a idea Matic
to go for example is come up return
probably my passing like co-routines vs.
robots so just like the calling
convention to an error yeah returning
multiple things peering for an hour well
there's a big difference we in a
language that doesn't have types then a
language that has types yeah we can do
but I can't check that I can't use that
check it again anything we can express
this in my cache more concise way as
well as have the long description
because like there are two different
things here we want compilers to check
the stuff works in which this works well
for yeah but then there is the other
side of the story which is people
wanting to understand why or what so
this would get mapped to a JavaScript
implementation would have its own
idiomatic
notice and the JavaScript intimidation
should be documented so you should be
able to look at the JavaScript
permission and only read that and only
use that now I think a user of Lipton
deep in a language would read the
documentation of that language a an
implementer of lividity in a new
language should read and then from the
to read a file that gives them all of
the context necessary to write to like
do the mapping this isn't even the stuff
that's going to go into the go
implementation the government is gonna
have a bunch of other stuff
[Music]
so
but I guess what I was asking is are
these types all we need
PID pure info
multi adder so I guess let me pull in
[Music]
yes that's just because we're using
right now go as and as the ideal if we
used something else as the ideal we
wouldn't write that we reference that
exact thing so yeah because if this was
JavaScript we would say yeah so in
JavaScript you have like JavaScript the
callbacks version and then peer deeper
and hope you're sore piotr skarga
content discovery pure router content
writer the node i guess we need the
crypto we need the keys
yeah that's right that's an idiomatic to
go thing that we can get rid of I think
we should use go for now like is anyone
opposed to using go for the interface
definition language debate here I just
want to mention that there's also like
the IDL from Mozilla and it seems to
move to C++ and JavaScript which might
be what we need like just know how good
it is but just like to mention it they
have C IDs man oh really
it's used for Firefox OS no no oh my god
are you serious I mean those should be
examples of like pep ideas should be the
yeah so it's just
that's a twist more than one I guess I
think this is even more idiomatic than
go like callbacks
thanks for the C++ side in the browsers
basically in like it misses the API for
the JavaScript side but of course the
browser needs to implement the other
side in C++ anyway I just want to bring
it up in case you were aware of it but
like just it's a great intro ground
there there are other ideals so we
should also look at the the the only
reason I mentioned go or like we landed
and go is because it's really simple not
not for any other reason
no it's a different that's a different
semantic thing did we remember yeah dial
is explicit outgoing connection and I'm
making a I'm telling the I'm telling the
interface that I'm explicitly going to
make an outgoing dialing call and so
that means do some setup and perform a
dial operation listen is the symmetric
equivalent of that which is do some
setup and I'll wait a connection and
then get ready to accept connections
connect here is actually ambiguous and
says I don't care how you do it whether
you dial out or listen in just connect
to this peer if you already have a
connection
this just returns right away so if we
call this dial that'll cause confusion
yeah you dial addresses you connect
appears this is this is definitely a
bike shed worth like like I would like
to expose an interface that does not
have all of the connections stuff like
at all
that would I would be really happy if we
could do that I don't know that we can
and we should there be yep especially
the protocol like what what how do
people want to write protocols and up of
it we have one implementation of that
that is kind of modeled after HTTP
servers and go specifically it's not
necessarily the best way to do it
actually it to be serviced and go and
JavaScript callbacks so it's a callback
oriented thing may not necessarily be
the best one no I mean this man protocol
thing the the way that that works is is
using callbacks as a way to like grab my
protocol and mount it that may not be
the best thing what yeah no no no good
and go with anything high-performance
you do not want to use channels because
if they're actually quite expensive
unfortunately go channels are quite
expensive the version one of lipid
opinion go was
with channels and we would take a packet
like this all started with trying to
make it packets which at the beginning
and we take a packet and send it through
channels and so on and like do all this
kind of stuff in the and then deliver a
packet to the protocol all in in normal
idiomatic go stuff it was horrendously
slow it was awful
Mikado which is yet another stream
monster by the way did the same thing
and that person was all idiomatic to go
we did around the same time and both
like abandoned it completely and one the
other way because channels are
surprisingly expensive but the point was
to make concurrency is like simple at
the expense of well that wrong I don't
know I don't know yes but I think that
they are probably unhappy at how
expensive channels actually are in that
they would have preferred this to have
been good enough such that we could have
written that at implementation with
channels that way but in this case it
was just so bad that it just wasn't real
so but I mean maybe we should put more
effort into ours our high performance I
they left they left but yeah our high
performance Russ I mean I don't know
it's just on scheduling maybe that you
know we have performance requirements
beyond what go is ever gonna reach
because that's not their objective I
mean I don't know they go that the
runtime without kennels actually is much
slower that would be a great question to
figure out like we track to the
benchmark them and see how they do
and measure the forces between is not
right now but we should have that yeah
we don't we don't they start um and it's
probably yeah guys probably within for
most things within an order of magnitude
of C and most in most things less I'm
nor demented most things that are IO
bound won't like go will be fine
I think go doesn't do as well when you
have a lot of function calls and you're
manipulating like goroutine stacks and
potentially switching from over routines
but if you're dealing with io it's gonna
be probably close we should benchmark it
and see how it goes
yeah I thought of where we want to put
if we want this to be in a router for
example in like an actual like network
router it's gonna have to be rust yeah
nobody will admit a GC yeah I agree yeah
[Laughter]
speaking about the interfaces its pops
up not supposed to be here it is
supposed to be here whoops
it's their damn vibrations
thank you that was bothering me all day
did searches to like run in a loop to
like get the next word
yeah and so this is explicitly a
different way of doing it then then the
handler callback because I wanted to to
see that what that would look like yeah
it's a nuts stuff part of like cement
first USB the nut traversal thank you
Chris I think it would be a specific
underlying they'll be kind of like a you
you write a special transport that is
natural aware but and then it tries to
make the connection happen is there a
bunch of different NAT traversal
strategies yeah but that's it that's a
big selling point potentially for the
library with that we have all the
natural versatile strategies yep then
we'll try them one by one something like
that that's right
yeah so do we have any transports that
actually do what are you said we have a
couple of natural things one of them is
the very trivial like UPnP and NAT PMP
things which are like asking nice
routers to open a port okay we have a
really painful thing where in TCP has
originally designed you can send and
receive from the same port and if you do
that and the mat that you're dealing
with it's not fully symmetric then after
you dial out a couple times you can
receive you can observe the same address
from the outside and then you know what
your address outside of the mat is so
then people can dial you this is how
hole punching works so okay we do like
lazy hole punching in that as you dial
out you're gonna hole punch oh and this
is just a quirk of this perspective
routers you know it's it's meant to work
that way
okay okay it's been to work the way good
in go the network stack does not allow
you to reuse the same port actually it
does not allow you to bind on a TCP
outgoing port if that is already bound
to a listener but the kernel lets you do
that and so you have to set a kernel
flag like at this call flag and
currently
so there's like an annoying module that
exists to deal with the language
limitation Oh
written by us oh yeah always between
forking the language and maintaining a
patch on the language we're like yeah
download the latest version of language
apply the patch yeah and then run it and
convincing them to change their mind and
writing that module and so we wrote that
module because that was a cheapest
version but it's been no end of so
that's right yes yeah I think for the
kind of sophisticated stuff we're doing
go doesn't feel like the read language
but I recognize this extremely popular
and we would lose a lot of downstream
potential downstream developers if we
didn't support it so as a real trade-off
it's like yeah I mean I really think it
should be you know go and Russ should
exist yeah for both of them yeah and
well Jess we need for Brett in browsers
so yeah yeah that one is easy I think
though with well assembly we can have
Jas go and rust on the brothers it's
coming oh you want to see something
awesome always webassembly would we stop
developing Jess and just just do
everything in rust and target the
browser is one compiler good I mean yeah
is that crazy or yeah that's totally
legit
I mean I think we would have specific
transports for the browser that's a good
point
so like web RTC for example you would
only do in the password yeah and that
comes with Mike's done some other things
so maybe we will use like a base but
then bomb both different things and
those could be written would those be
handwritten JavaScript
rest or stuff like balls is that read
here don't need checks out
this wasn't fine gem so there's some a
main dot html' here that is gonna pull
in dot slash out slash mange is and dot
slash mage is mage is here defines greet
equal to wasn't bind young and then
calls it has a function called run app
which calls greet and then it has wasn't
bind Jen something something then run
app so it calls wasn't bind Jen which is
a function imported somewhere and then
after that calls run app alright so then
here I have a Lib dot RS and so here I
do some awesome bind Jen stuff and then
I extern an alert function and then I
define the greet function with and I
call alert from greet so I can build
this and I built main dodge is here
which has a bunch of like it has like
exports that greet and so on probably
like somewhere somewhere I run app is
calling Greek in here yeah here
maybe you got compiled out somehow oh I
do
where 4039 what some Greek oh yeah here
yeah well this is this is the JavaScript
version of greets is like taking a doubt
a je s string and turning it into a
wasn't string and then calling it into
and then calling wasn't Greek and so
here's a bunch of awesome oh yeah here
you can see that very important
operation and then you have this great
amazing slide that you know where like a
musical number
it's very long like this is just great
wow yeah I know I'm kidding Rowley and
then we run it and my world and you can
go to rest and be like oh you know what
I want to make sure that this is legit
save build
thank you yeah so this pretty sweet so
yeah I mean rust implementation of all
the stuff it's gonna be on the browser
say my sweet I mean they already showed
a right well let's show you how easy it
is to call like functions from one to
the other right like this is calling
greet with a J s string and over here
you're getting a rust from why mean you
would shout out to the native functions
of why one would think it would be
useful this needs to have like a foreign
in place for you to call like a force
which in possum would be the browser
right so but the web assembly guys wants
to do is create shirts where you
from the environment yeah so that it
would be a networking features but
currently there is no fire no right
that's the you have to inject
that's why we can use it if we generate
of course if you do everything manually
[Music]
we just didn't do it because it's not
unity
mozilla hack loved a lot of sweets
articles
yeah and wasn't by again it's gonna
probably pull in CNC booth bus as well
potentially other other things
oh so this site is just this whole site
is just demoing wasn't find you know
this always like uh this is a gem so
kind general IDE yeah empty what
projects oh I don't know
oh maybe maybe it does always do benjin
maybe maybe yeah maybe this is OK what's
that oh I see
oh it's ooh actual webassembly is just
some binary format or whatever it's just
like ok we have to watch